I stand amid a jagged series of peaks, enveloped in a haze that tinges both the rocks 
and the sky with an unusual shade of Mars. I might indeed be tricked into believing 
I'm on another planet altogether, were it not for the strip of road that winds through 
the center of the valley and reminds me that others have traced their way into the depths 
of this place before me. 

One of the first Europeans to set sail for these lands was the legendary explorer and 
writer Marco Polo, who journeyed far from his own country and into Yuan Dynasty-era China 
in 1275. "I did not write half of what I saw, for I knew it would not be believed,"he wrote 
in his memoirs of the period. 

Like our journey through millennia of evolutionary changes, the Silk Road is a trip 
that is considered important to the human condition. It may not be the first story of 
human movement, recorded or otherwise, but it is perhaps the most abiding. The Silk 
Road was a series of trade routes that began hundreds of years before the Common Era 
and lasted until the 15th or 16th century (though many scholars argue that it continued 
for much longer). Over the millennia, as kingdoms rose and collapsed and conquerors 
redrew broad areas of what is now Central Asia, the Middle East and Southern Europe, 
the roads swerved and shimmied, crossing mountains and deserts and eventually even 
the sea. Heading west from the ancient city of Chang'an (now Xi'an) in China trundled 
caravans of silk, tea, paper, and spices, inching toward their destinations in Rome 
or Constantinople; heading east came glass, gold, silver and horses. The route was 
some 4,000 miles, and dangerous; the people who traveled along it knew that they 
could be felled by perils both human and climatic, that at any moment, the lands 
they traversed could become hostile territory. 

And so why did they persist, these early travelers? For one thing, there was their 
curiosity, their craving for the new, as fundamental to our condition as hunger or 
thirst, It wasn't just new objects or technologies that they encountered on the 
route; it was new ideas, new philosophies and new cultures. To travel was to risk 
not only physical danger, but a different kind of risk as well -- the chance that 
you might discard what you'd always believed for some other ideology altogether. 
The road could change you so profoundly that you might never again be welcome back home.

For another, there was the allure of adventure. Yes, the path was dangerous. Yes, you 
might never see your family again. But movement is also intrinsic to the human experience. 
It is why the romance of the Silk Road endures all these years later: Although you can 
interpret it as the first, most durable experiment in globalization, you can also see 
it as a testament to not just our desire, but our need to explore. Every traveler who 
leaves home therefore follows in the spirit of our Silk Road ancestors, stepping out 
of our known world in the hope that we might be dazzled. 

I had always been tempted by the same desire for adventure and exploration. And so this 
May, I arrived in Gansu Province to retrace a small part of Polo's epic route, voyaging 
from the city of Lanzhou to the Buddhist grottoes of Dunhuang. 

I drifted through wide rivers and scenic rock formations, encountered beautiful oasis 
cities, listened to sand dunes sing and lost myself in rainbow-ridged mountains. I also 
passed construction sites, bustling neighborhoods and trucks speeding on superhighway 
stretching for thousands of kilometers westward, which is part of "the New Silk Road". 
Sometimes it seemed like I was being catapulted back in time -- at others, forward into 
a dazzling future land.  

And toward the end of my trip, I realized that the Silk Road has more lessons to offer us 
in this moment than I'd previously thought. While it is a reminder of our desire for 
interconnectedness, it is also a reminder that open borders and movement bring wonder 
and awe to our lives, although they may also be accompanied by hardships and sorrows. 
Over the course of the Silk Road's operation, humanity had to contend with some of the 
toughest challenges in recorded history. The journey was hazardous, the risks, geographical 
or political, were numerous, and the dangers were deadly serious. Travelers struggled with 
bleak deserts, formidable mountains, and harsh weather. They also faced robbery, starvation, 
and other forms of deprivation. Numerous travelers lost their lives along the way, never 
being able to reunite with their family and friends. 

But for all these hardships and sorrows, the journey continued. Trade continued. Exchanges 
among different civilizations continued. The need to discover new things and new people, to 
look down the road ahead, continued. What else could they do, those pioneering travelers? 
They could no more ignore what they desired than they could unlearn what centuries of 
exploration and interaction had taught them. The only way through was forward.

It is the same for us today. The only way through is forward. Let us find some comfort, though, 
in the knowledge that we are preceded by centuries of human endurance, by those travelers who 
remind us that the journey, no matter how difficult, ends up as an epic road worth taking.                                             